1) What is a Network?
     Network is defined as a set of devices connected to each other using a physical transmission medium.

What are Routers?

    The router is a network device that connects two or more network segments.
    It is used to transfer information from the source to the destination.

What is the OSI reference model?

    Open System Interconnection, the name itself suggests that it is a reference model that
    defines how applications can communicate with each other over a networking system.

types of protocals?
    There are various types of protocols that support a major and compassionate role in communicating 
    with different devices across the network. These are:
        Transmission Control Protocol (TCP)
        Internet Protocol (IP)
        User Datagram Protocol (UDP)
        Post office Protocol (POP)
        Simple mail transport Protocol (SMTP)
        File Transfer Protocol (FTP)
        Hyper Text Transfer Protocol (HTTP)
        Hyper Text Transfer Protocol Secure (HTTPS)

What does TCP/IP stand for?
    TCP/IP stands for Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol. TCP/IP is a set of standardized rules 
    that allow computers to communicate on a network such as the internet
    ->Application Layer:
    ->Transport Layer:
    ->Network or Internet Layer:
    ->Network Interface Layer:

What is HTTP?

    HTTP is HyperText Transfer Protocol and it is responsible for web content. 
    Many web pages are using HTTP to transmit the web content and allow the display 
    and navigation of HyperText
    TCP port 80.

What is HTTPs and what port does it use?

    HTTPs is a Secure HTTP. HTTPs is used for secure communication over a computer network.
    HTTPs use TCP with port 443.

What is a Firewall?

    Firewall is a network security system that is used
    to protect computer networks from unauthorized access.

What is DNS?

    Domain Name Server (DNS), 
    in a non-professional language and we can call it an Internet’s phone book.
    All the public IP addresses and their hostnames are stored in the DNS and 
    later it translates into a corresponding IP address.
    eg.machine language(wwww. .com) – IP address

What is meant by 127.0.0.1 and localhost?

    IP address 127.0.0.1, is reserved for loopback or localhost connections.
    These networks are usually reserved for the biggest customers or some of the original members of 
    the Internet.

OS security
    Security refers to providing a protection system to computer system resources such as CPU, memory, disk, 
    software programs and most importantly data/information stored in the computer system.

File system
    A file is a named collection of related information that is recorded on secondary 
    storage such as magnetic disks, magnetic tapes and optical disks

What is SNMP?

    SNMP stands for Simple Network Management Protocol. It is a network protocol used for 
    collecting organizing and exchanging information between network devices.

What are the different types of a network? 

    Personal Area Network (PAN): It is the smallest and basic network type that is often used at home. 
                connection between the computer and another device such as phone, printer, modem tablets
    Local Area Network (LAN): LAN is used in small offices and Internet cafes to connect a 
                                small group of computers to each other. Usually,
                                they are used to transfer a file or for playing the game in a network.
    Metropolitan Area Network (MAN): It is a powerful network type than LAN. 
                                    The area covered by MAN is a small town, city, etc. 
                                    A huge server is used to cover such a large span of area for connection.
    Wide Area Network (WAN): It is more complex than LAN and covers a large span of 
                            the area typically a large physical distance.
                            The Internet is the largest WAN which is spread across the world. 

Describe the layers of the OSI model?

    OSI model stands for Open System Interconnection It is a framework that guides the applications
    on how they can communicate in a network.

    OSI model has seven layers. They are listed below,

    Physical Layer: Deals with transmission and reception of unstructured data through a physical medium.
    Data Link Layer: Helps in transferring error-free data frames between nodes.
    Network Layer: Decides the physical path that should be taken by the data as per the network conditions.
    Transport Layer: Ensures that the messages are delivered in sequence and without any loss or duplication.
    Session Layer: Helps in establishing a session between processes of different stations.
    Presentation Layer: Formats the data as per the need and presents the same to the Application layer.
    Application Layer: Serves as the mediator between Users and processes of applications.

What is the full form of ASCII?

    ASCII stands for American Standard Code for Information Interchange.

Define Static IP and Dynamic IP?

    a device or computer is assigned a specified IP address then it is named as Static IP. 
    It is assigned by the Internet Service Provider as a permanent address.

    Dynamic IP is the temporary IP address assigned by the network to a computing device. 
    Dynamic IP is automatically assigned by the server to the network device.

why use antivirus?
    Antivirus is a software program that protects a computer from any malicious software, any virus,
    spyware, adware, etc.

    Note: A Firewall cannot protect the system from viruses, spyware, adware, etc.

Define IEEE in the networking world?

    IEEE stands for the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineer. 
    This is used to design or develop standards that are used for networking.

What is the use of encryption and decryption?

    Encryption is the process of converting the transmission data into another form
    that is not read by any other device other than the intended receiver.

    Decryption is the process of converting back the encrypted data to its normal form. 
    An algorithm called cipher is used in this conversion process.

Brief Ethernet?

    Ethernet is a technology that is used to connect computers all over the network 
    to transmit the data between each other.
    eg.connect a computer and laptop to a printer, then we can call it as an Ethernet network.

    The main difference between the Internet and Ethernet is security. 
    Ethernet is safer than the Internet as Ethernet is a closed-loop and has only limited access.

What is an Encoder?

    Encoder is a circuit that uses an algorithm to convert any data or compress audio data or 
    video data for transmission purposes. An encoder converts the analog signal into the digital signal.


 What is a Decoder?

    Decoder is a circuit that converts the encoded data to its actual format. 
    It converts the digital signal into an analog signal.

Describe the key elements of the protocol?

    Syntax: It is the format of the data. That means in which order the data is displayed.
    Semantics: Describes the meaning of the bits in each section.
    Timing: At what time the data is to be sent and how fast it is to be sent.

Expand SLIP?

    SLIP stands for Serial Line Interface Protocol. 
    SLIP is a protocol used for transmitting IP datagrams over a serial line.

What is the full form of IDEA?

     IDEA stands for International Data Encryption Algorithm








     