1) What is an operating system?
    The operating system is a software program that facilitates computer hardware to communicate 
    and operate with the computer software.

2) What is an API with example?
    
    API is the stands for Application Programming Interface,
    which is a software intermediary that allows two applications to talk to each other.
    Each time you use an app like Facebook, send an instant message,
    or check the weather on your phone, you're using an API.

3)What is GUI explain?

    A graphical user interface (GUI) is a type of user interface through which users interact 
    with electronic devices via visual indicator representations 

4)What is the main purpose of an operating system?
    There are two main purposes of an operating system:

    It is designed to make sure that a computer system performs well by managing its computational activities.
    It provides an environment for the development and execution of programs.

5) What are the different operating systems?
    Batched operating systems
    Distributed operating systems
    Timesharing operating systems
    Multi-programmed operating systems
    Real-time operating systems

6) What is a socket?
    A socket is used to make connection between two applications.
    Endpoints of the connection are called socket.

7) What is kernel?
    Kernel is the core and most important part of a computer operating system 
    which provides basic services for all parts of the OS.

8) What is a real-time system?
    Real-time system is used in the case when rigid-time requirements 
    have been placed on the operation of a processor.
    It contains a well defined and fixed time constraints.

9) What do you mean by a process?
    An executing program is known as process. There are two types of processes:

    Operating System Processes
    User Processes

10)What are the different states of a process?
    A list of different states of process:

    New Process
    Running Process
    Waiting Process
    Ready Process
    Terminated Process

11) What is the difference between micro kernel and macro kernel?
    ->Micro kernel: micro kernel is the kernel which runs minimal performance affecting services 
    for operating system. In micro kernel operating system all other operations are performed by processor.

    ->Macro Kernel: Macro Kernel is a combination of micro and monolithic kernel.

12) What is the difference between process and program?
    A program while running or executing is known as a process.

13) What is the use of paging in operating system?
    Paging is used to solve the external fragmentation problem in operating system. 
    This technique ensures that the data you need is available as quickly as possible.

14) What is the concept of demand paging?
    Demand paging specifies that if an area of memory is not currently being used,
    it is swapped to disk to make room for an application's need.

15) What is the advantage of a multiprocessor system?
    As many as processors are increased, you will get the considerable increment in throughput. 
    It is cost effective also because they can share resources. So, the overall reliability increases.

16) What is virtual memory?
        A computer can address more memory than the amount physically installed on the system.
        This extra memory is actually called virtual memory 
        it is a section of a hard disk that's set up to emulate the computer's RAM.

17) What is a thread?
    A thread is a basic unit of CPU utilization. It consists of a thread ID, program counter, 
    register set and a stack.

18) What is FCFS?
    FCFS stands for First Come, First Served. It is a type of scheduling algorithm. 
    In this scheme, if a process requests the CPU first, it is allocated to the CPU first.
    Its implementation is managed by a FIFO queue.

19) What is SMP?
    SMP stands for Symmetric MultiProcessing. It is the most common type of multiple processor system. 
    In SMP, each processor runs an identical copy of the operating system,
    and these copies communicate with one another when required.

20) What is deadlock? Explain.
    Deadlock is a specific situation or condition where two processes are waiting for each other 
    to complete so that they can start.
    But this situation causes hang for both of them.

21)What is the difference between internal commands and external commands?
    Internal commands are the built-in part of the operating system while external commands are 
    the separate file programs that are stored in a separate folder or directory.

22) What are the advantages of multithreaded programming?
    A list of advantages of multithreaded programming:

    Enhance the responsiveness to the users.
    Resource sharing within the process.
    Economical
    Completely utilize the multiprocessing architecture.

23) What are overlays?
    Overlays makes a process to be larger than the amount of memory allocated to it. 
    It ensures that only important instructions and data at any given time are kept in memory.

24)what is multithreading?
    Multithreading is the ability of a program or an operating system process to manage 
    its use by more than one user at a time and to even manage multiple requests by 
    the same user without having to have multiple copies of the programming running in the computer.


26) what is software?
    Software is a set of instructions, data or programs used to operate computers and execute specific tasks. 
    It is the opposite of hardware, which describes the physical aspects of a computer.












